ADS Bibliography Maker Documentation

1. Introduction 
2. Functions 
    1. Initialize 
    2. Affiliation Query 
    3. Author Query 
    4. Make Library 

3. Institutional Bibliography Workflow 
    1. Enter author names 
    2. Enter affiliations 
    3. Run the queries 
    4. Curate the results 
    5. Create an ADS library 

4. Tips 

## Introduction

Managing an institutional bibliography with ADS means reviewing records to verify that author and affiliation information is correct. With the ADS web interface, this means performing a search to create a results page, then clicking on each item and scanning through the author and reference list to find the relevant institution. Articles that belong in the bibliography are then selected from the results page and added.


With the new ADS API, query results can be output to a spreadsheet format that is easier for a curator to read. This results in a more streamlined process that lets curators quickly mark records for inclusion, ignore records that do not belong, and focus most of their energy on the most difficult records.


The tool is an add-on for Google Sheets and requires several inputs which are entered on certain sheets. The required sheets are called AuthorNames, Affiliations, and BibcodesForNewLibrary and can be automatically created with the tool.


The tool has four functions which are viewable in the ADS Bibliography Maker drop down menu.

## Functions

### Initialize

The Initialize function generates new AuthorNames, Affiliations, and BibcodesForNewLibrary sheets with the appropriate column headers. Information from these sheets is used when the other functions are run.

### Affiliation Query

The Affiliation Query function performs consecutive searches of affiliation text strings from the Affiliations sheet. It creates a new sheet which is populated with results from the ADS API query and metadata that is generated by the tool.

### Author Query

The Author Query function performs consecutive searches of author text strings from the AuthorNames sheet. It creates a new sheet which is populated with results from the ADS API query and metadata that is generated by the tool.

### Make Library

The Make Library function uses bibcodes from the BibcodesForNewLibrary sheet to create a library in the curator’s ADS account.

## Institutional Bibliography Workflow

### Enter author names

In the AuthorNames sheet, add authors from your institution in the AuthorNames column. The names should be in the “Lastname, Firstname” or “Lastname, Firstinitial” format.


Note: ADS will include a search for last name with first initial when using a full first name. This is beneficial when there are no ambiguities about an author’s first name because it will not include records where an author has the same last name and first initial but a different first name. If an author has published with multiple first names (Eg. Robert, Bob, Bobby) you may list those names as well or send an email to ADS (adshelp@cfa.harvard.edu) and request for those author names to be linked as synonyms. When author names are linked in ADS, all synonyms will show up in results for a query of one of the synonyms.

### Enter affiliations

In the Affiliations sheet, add an API key under the API Key column. Enter publication date ranges for the query under StartYear, StartMonth, EndYear, and EndMonth.


Next, add the list of affiliations to the affiliation column with each entry on a new line. During an affiliation query, the tool identifies the matched affiliations and authors in each paper for that string of text


Use the “Tag” field to indicate if the entry on that line is an exact or ambiguous match. Your indication will be included in the results so you can easily sort. An ambiguous match could return results from other institutions whereas an exact match should not.


Use the “Exclude” field to indicate text strings that might lead you to exclude an item from your results if they appear in the in the affiliation field. Your indication will be included in the results so you can easily sort.

### Run the queries

Go to the ADS Bibliography Generator drop down menu and select “Affiliation Query” to generate a new sheet with results from querying the affiliation list you provided.


Select “Author Query” to submit a query based on your list of authors.

### Curate the results

The query results are now able to be read and sorted in Google Sheets or can be exported to other software for curation.

### Create an ADS library

Put a list of bibcodes that you want to add to a library in the sheet called, “BibcodesForNewLibrary” in the first column under “Bibcode List”. Go to the ADS Bibliography Generator drop down menu and select “Make Library” to generate a new ADS library in you ADS account. The library will be named after the time and date that you created it. You may look at it and rename it in the ADS Bumblebee interface.

## Tips

It is often the case that institutions have multiple names, versions of a name, or sub groups that are used in the affiliation field. For best results, try to search for the shortest possible text string for each version of a name. (e.g., Instead of “Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics” try “Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics”)
